feat: scaffold new process applications documentation (#5416)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/components/concepts/process-applications.md

---
id: process-applications
title: Process applications

> description: A process application is a type of folder that contains a set of related files you can work on and deploy as a single bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A process application is a folder that contains related files which, deployed together, constitute a Camunda solution.
```

---

import ProcessApplicationImg from './assets/process-applications/diagram-process-application-get-started.png'

> A process application is a type of folder that contains a set of related files you can work on and deploy as a single bundle. This reduces the risk of a broken deployment at runtime, and makes it easier to deploy related files.

Reviewer: Example for an alternative intro:

```suggestion
Projects built with Camunda tend to have a main BPMN process that represents your end-to-end use case, and additional files that the main process depends on, such as called supporting processes, DMN decisions, or forms.

Bundled together, and versioned together, these resources constitute a process application.

For example, for a [... insert your example].

Our editors support you as you develop process applications:

* ....
* ....

[Future, once spring-zeebe is back, also the run-time supports you]
```

To me the main points we want to convey:

* All the files, together, constitute Camunda (8) solution
* Process applications are deployed together, versioned as a unit, thought about as a unit
* Within our modelers we offer advanced editor tooling (linking, code intelligence) within a process application
* Both modelers (...) support process applications

Bundled together, versioned together, and deployed together, these resources constitute a _process application_.

<p><img src={ProcessApplicationImg} alt="Process application" /></p>

For instance, a consumer loan approval process application might bundle:

- A main BPMN process (e.g., consumer-loan-application.bpmn) to define the workflow.
- DMN decision tables (e.g., interest-rate-calculation.dmn, credit-score-calculation.dmn) for business rules.
- Forms (e.g., loan-application-review.form) for user interactions.

:::tip
We recommend you use a process application for all your non-trivial automation projects.
:::

Web and Desktop modeler support process applications by

- providing all resources of a process application as context when modeling (e.g. for linking resources)
- creating snapshots of a process application through versioning
- deploying all resources of a process application as a bundle

## Next steps

Read more about how to use process applications in Web and Desktop Modeler:

- [Process applications in Web Modeler](/components/modeler/web-modeler/process-applications.md)

> - [Process applications in Desktop Modeler](/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/process-applications.md)

Author: 👍🏻
